scientists complete sequencing of the chromosome linked to early dementia
( afp , paris , january 2 ) an international team of scientists said that they have completed the sequencing of human chromosome 14 that is linked to many diseases , including the early-onset alzheimer's that may strike people in their 30s .
this is the fourth chromosome whose sequence has been completed to date . it comprises more than 87 million pairs of dna .
this study published in the weekly british scientific journal nature illustrates that the sequence of chromosome 14 comprises 1,050 genes and gene fragments .
the goal of geneticists is to provide diagnostic tools to identify defective genes that cause diseases so as to arrive eventually at treatments that can prevent those genes from malfunctioning .
the international scientists led by genoscope , a french gene research center , said that chromosome 14 contains two clusters of genes that are linked to the function of our immune system and more than 60 disease genes .
chromosome 14 has been identified in earlier studies on a great number of diseases such as spastic paraplegia that afflicts young children , missing teeth , several forms of vision and hearing impairments and early-onset alzheimer's .
about 200,000 americans suffer from early-onset alzheimer's , accounting for 5 % of alzheimer's patients in the entire united states .
humans have a total of 23 pairs of chromosomes .
in the past three years , the sequencing of three chromosomes has been completed , including chromosomes 20 , 21 , and 22 .
australia reopens embassy in manila
( afp , manila , january 2 ) australia reopened its embassy in the philippines today , which was shut down about seven weeks ago due to what was described as a specific threat of a terrorist attack .
the philippine foreign department said in a statement that pearce , australian ambassador to manila , has telephoned the philippine foreign secretary ople to announce the resumption of full operations of the embassy .
like australia , canada and the european union closed their embassies on november 28 and reopened them earlier this week .
ople said that all three ambassadors are satisfied with the heightened security measures the philippine government has taken .
the closure of the embassies had angered the philippine government , which said the alleged threat was exaggerated and the closure of the embassies harmed the image of the philippines .
manila fired the police intelligence official because he leaked the unverified intelligence about terrorist threats upon the australian and canadian embassies .
the eu office and the australian embassy are housed in the same building .
around the anniversary of the sept . 11 terrorist attacks on the united states , western diplomatic missions across southeast asia shut down one after another because they received threats linked to osama bin laden's al-qaeda network and its regional allies .
australian foreign minister says north korea's bad behaviors will not gain more aid
( afp , sydney , january 2 ) australia has called on the international community to work together to convince north korea that holding nuclear non-proliferation treaty in contempt or other " bad behaviors " will not gain it more aid or other concessions .
australian foreign minister downer noted today that pyongyang's decisions to reactivate a controversial nuclear facility and to expel un monitors are obviously aimed at forcing the international community into making aid and trade concessions .
australia is one of the few countries that have diplomatic relations with north korea .
downer said : " we think what north korea wants to do is to gain concessions , aid and trade , etc . from the rest of the world , including the united states , by violating the agreed framework signed in 1994 . "
in an interview with the australian broadcasting cooperation , downer said : " one point we'd like to make to north korea and a very important one at that , is that bad behaviors will not be rewarded . "
downer pointed out : " such behaviors as expelling un monitors and reactivating the nuclear facility at yongbyon are going to prevent the international community from providing support . "
" it's going to produce the reverse effect . we hope these diplomatic measures will be effective . "
" on the other hand , if we overreact , we will fall for north korea's trick .
we don't want to do that . "
downer indicated that australia is working closely with the united states and other major allies to pressure north korea to cancel its recent steps to reactivate the frozen nuclear program .
downer said : " what we want to do is to ensure that the international community make concerted efforts . we don't want to take any uncoordinated special countermeasures . "
bush defends his economic stimulus package
( afp , washington , january 6 ) us president bush vowed that the economic stimulus package he is going to unveil will benefit the " working people , " and not just the wealthy . it is generally believed that the wealthy can expect to benefit the most from this plan that urges dramatic tax cuts .
bush told reporters who are expecting him to officially announce this package in chicago : " tomorrow , all of you will hear me saying : the us economy is one of the strongest in the world .
however , we believe the us economy can be even stronger than it is now . "
bush is expected to unveil an economic stimulus package that carries a 10 - year price tag of 600 billion us dollars , half of which will be used towards eliminating taxes on dividends paid to shareholders . he will also call for accelerating the tax rate cuts approved by the us congress in 2001 .
whether the package can be smoothly promoted is viewed as the front battle of the 2004 us presidential election . the democrats attacked bush's blueprint as an additional bonus to the wealthy , unlike the democratic proposal which is intended as an aid to the most needy .
the eight-point proposal put forward by the democrats centers around an incentive measure of 136 billion us dollars to stimulate consumer spending which will cost 100 billion us dollars over a period of ten years .
house democratic leader pelosi said at a joint press conference with other opposition lawmakers : " this is a fair , fast-acting , and fiscally sound plan . "
bush led the white house in refuting the accusation from the media that his package only benefits the wealthy , claiming that the economic stimulus package he is going to unveil is chiefly targeted at " revving up economic vitality and growth . "
bush said : " this package will provide tax relief to the working people .
the idea behind the package is that when people have extra money , they are likely to spend it , which can create more jobs . "
us willing to negotiate with north korea but not to pay more compensation
( afp , washington , january 7 ) the united states expressed today its willingness to negotiate with north korea , a hostile nation on the " axis of evil , " but will not provide any fresh inducements to this financially struggling communist nation so as to make it abandon its nuclear program .
us president bush's administration is currently facing a double crisis with iraq and north korea . the bush administration officials issued a statement after their talks with senior japanese and south korean diplomats , saying that this signals " a step forward " in the us policy toward pyongyang .
the statement said : " the us delegation is willing to talk with north korea about how it should meet its obligation to the international community .
however , the us delegation emphasized that the united states will not provide any compensation for north korea to live up to its existing obligation . "
the us officials insisted with carefully worded diplomatic rhetoric that although they are willing to negotiate with north korea , they will not consider any negotiation procedures before north korea abides by various agreements on banning nuclear weapons .
the state department spokesman boucher said : " we are not willing to pay again for the agreements that have been reached already . "
before that , the bush administration indicated that the united states will refuse to have talks with north korea before this stalinist nation abandons its nuclear program based on enriched uranium and plutonium .
former executive of a us online real estate company to plead guilty to fraud charges
( afp , los angeles ) prosecutors said that a former chief executive of " homestore , " a us online real estate company , has agreed to plead guilty to fraud charges and reached a settlement over the lawsuit that originated from the insider trading scandal .
special assistant us attorney wilner said that kalina , homestore's former senior manager of mergers and acquisitions , has entered a plea bargain deal and agreed to plead guilty to one count of securities fraud involving insider trading .
fuchs , another prosecutor , said that kalina also agreed to pay 70,000 us dollars to settle a civil lawsuit against him by the us securities and exchange commission .
wilner said that the maximum sentence for securities fraud can be ten years of imprisonment . however , according to the plea bargain deal , the aforementioned term is expected to be " dramatically shortened . "
the prosecutors and investigators pointed out , in the financial fraud scheme in which kalina was involved , homestore's chief executives misled investors by overstating the 2001 revenues .
fuchs said , when kalina became aware of the artificially inflated stock price , he dumped his homestore shares to make a profit . " the wall street wasn't aware that the key portion of homestore's revenues was bogus . "
desimone , homestore's former vice president who has been charged with similar insider trading , has pleaded guilty . the court is scheduled to announce sentencing on april 21 .
homestore's chief operating officer giesecke and former chief financial officer joseph shew have pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities fraud .
prosecutors said that giesecke and joseph shew , together with other company chief executives , have been charged with overstating revenues by falsifying homestore's accounting .
days of heavy snow in europe left many dead and transportation disrupted
( afp , vienna , january 8 ) days of heavy snow , low temperatures from siberia as well as high winds across europe have caused many deaths while disrupting road , rail , air and sea traffic .
the temperatures in moscow , capital of russia , dropped to such low levels last night that even locals felt freezing cold . six people died as a result , bringing up the death toll due to coldness this year to 239 . most of the dead were the homeless and the elderly , including many who were drunk .
three people died last night in lithuania , and many others had to have their legs and fingers amputated due to frost bites .
the temperatures in varena region in the south of the country plummeted to a new low of minus 32.6 degrees celsius in 16 years .
in slovakia , three illegal immigrants from india also died of cold and exhaustion on monday when the local temperatures dropped to minus 20 degrees celsius .
in the meantime , civil defense services across the european continent and beyond all indicated that snowfalls have blocked roads , delayed trains and paralyzed airports .
frozen railroad points and road accidents in britain have paralyzed transportation in some areas . heavy snow , after covering the eastern region , is now moving westward .
in the czech republic , which was ravaged by serious floods last summer , the temperatures in its border region adjacent to neighboring slovakia plunged to minus 18 degrees celsius .
worldwatch institute praises environmental revolution
( afp , washington , january 9 ) in its annual report " state of the world , " worldwatch institute , an environmental research organization , praised with unusual optimism the advent of " environmental revolution , " pointing out that many countries are successfully curbing or solving environmental , health and social problems .
flavin , head of worldwatch institute , said on the 9th : " building a world that not only meets our needs but also allows future generations to enjoy a healthy society is no longer a day dream . "
this edition of state of the world report points out that one of the encouraging achievements is the increasing use of renewable energies such as " solar energy and wind power " in germany , japan and spain .
speaking about the success of promoting the strategy of renewable energies , flavin said : " we're entering a new era . "
the above-mentioned report says that in the 1990s , the worldwide production of chlorofluorocarbons , " the no . 1 culprit in destroying the ozone layer , " has decreased by 81 % .
in addition , the anti-polio campaigns promoted by the world health organization have reduced polio cases globally from 350,000 in 1988 to 480 in 2001 .
this washington-based environmental research organization also praised local successes in environmental protection . for example , the netherlands has achieved an 86 percent recycling rate for automobiles ; denmark has totally banned the use of aluminum cans in favor of recyclable glass bottles ; and brazil has been using renewable energies since 2001 .
the organization's report says that the past achievements have brought hopes for relieving serious global threats , which include malaria that claims 7,000 lives every day , and the food , air , and water pollution that leads to the untimely deaths of 5,500 children every day .
aol time warner chairman case to resign in may
( afp , washington , january 12 ) aol time warner chairman case announced tonight that he will resign in may , saying that this move is " the best for the company . "
while explaining his decision , case said that he has decided on the steps to take in order to prevent shareholders' criticism of him from " hindering our ability to cooperate as a team and to focus fully on our businesses . "
case , who oversaw america online's merger with time warner which was approved by the us federal trade commission in january 2001 , will remain as a board member of aol time warner .
the merger was valued at 155 billion us dollars when it was announced in january 2000 . the merger was approved by the european policy makers later that year .
case said in a statement : " as you expected , this decision is personally very difficult for me , because i hoped to serve as chairman of this conglomerate for years to come . and as an architect of the merger , i have always thought it was important that i stay as chairman and help get things back on track . "
he stressed : " first of all , this company does not need uneasiness at this critical moment . as some shareholders still focus their dissappointment with the company's post-merger performance on me personally , i have decided that we should take steps now to prevent it from hindering our cooperation as a team and to focus fully on our businesses . "
aol time warner's internet arm , america online , said that it expects its advertising and commerce sales for 2002 to drop to between 1.5 to 1.6 billion us dollars from 2.7 billion in 2001 .
whereas , the total revenue will be between 8.8 to 9 billion us dollars against the 8.718 billion us dollars in the preceding year .
the company estimates that america online's total revenue for 2003 will remain about the same as that in 2002 , while revenues from advertising and commerce sales will drop by 40 - 50 % .
north korea withdraws from nuclear non-poliferation treaty to defy the entire world
( afp , washington , january 15 ) the showdown between the united states and north korea has escalated from such peripheral issues as " the axis of evil " to an international crisis , threatening to ruin decades of global efforts at nuclear non-proliferation .
pyongyang declared its withdrawal from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty on the 10th of this month , resulting in a stand-off with washington .
analysts said that at present , the global efforts aimed at nuclear non-proliferation are threatened with failure . the treaty has already been seriously undermined when the non-signatories india and pakistan joined the nuclear club in 1998 .
four days after pyongyang made the above move , five permanent members of the un security council have all taken preventive diplomatic actions on this crisis .
russia said it will send a special envoy to pyongyang to suggest an end to this stalemate , while china proposed that the united states and north korea hold a dialog to reach a compromise .
meanwhile , in london , britain and france are discussing this crisis .
international atomic energy agency has warned that if north korea refuses to abandon its nuclear program , the agency may request the security council to take actions .
as far as russia's and china's moves are concerned , many us observers think such talks may force moscow and beijing to decide whether or not to vote against north korea .
other countries with nuclear capabilities , such as iran and libya , will surely be on close watch for the development of north korea crisis .
they would notice that north korea withdraws from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty with impunity , or gets huge sums of funds from the united states in exchange that it stop developing nuclear weapons .
einhorn , a former arms control official of the state department , said : " if north korea is considered capable of withdrawing from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , they may figure they can make the same move without paying any cost . "
